All right.
So in the last video we talked about REM an m units.
Now we're going to talk about V, H and VW, which is viewport height and viewport widths.
So the viewport is this whole area inside the browser, basically the browser body.
And when we say, for instance, 50 VH, which is 50 viewport height, it's going to take up 50 of 100
viewport heights.
And the way I want you to think of this is slices.
So each viewport height is a slice across.
It goes up and down and slices across.
And there's always going to be 100 of them, no matter how big or small the browser is.
You can make it tiny.
You could stretch it across your whole screen.
There's always 100 viewport heights and each one is a slice.
Now for viewport widths, it's the same thing, only it goes across and the slices go down.
So there's 100 slices that go this way and you can set your content to take up to or 100 or anything
between zero and 100 viewport heights and viewport widths.
So we're going to create a tiny little project, kind of a landing page using.
And so I can give you an example of how to use these in viewport heights are used much more than viewport
widths because for the most part things go all the way across anyway.
So we're going to create a new file here.
Let's call it one five, underscore VH, underscore VW dot HTML.
And we're going to put our head and body tags, let's say VH and VW units and we'll put in our style.
So let's, let's add our HTML first and we're going to put in a header tag.
And inside the header let's do an H one.
We'll just say welcome to our website and we'll put a paragraph.
Let's do Lorem.
We'll do lorm 15.
And let's see.
Underneath that, let's put a link with a class of BTN.
Oops, we want a link.
So it's going to be an A tag, the class of BTN and it's not going to go anywhere.
And inside the link we'll just say Find out more.
All right.
Now in the style, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to add a little bit of reset.
So we're going to use an asterisk, meaning target everything and let's set the box sizing to border
box and then let's remove the margin and padding from everything.
Okay.
And I'm just going to open this with a live server.
So this is what it should look like.
And notice the margin and padding is removed from everything.
Let's add in a body style because I want this to look decent.
So we'll say font family and let's grab this right here.
This is to go UI to Homa and for the header
I'm going to do you know what, let's do a background, I'm going to add an image, but for now I'm
just going to add a color.
So just a dark color and let's make the the color of the text white and let's save that and see what
we get.
So by default, it's just going to the background color is going to wrap it's going to wrap the content.
If we add more paragraphs and stuff, it's going to just go down along with the content.
What I want is the header background to take up the entire thing, the entire screen, and you might
think, well, let's set the height to 100% of its container, which is the body.
So let's save that.
I saved it and there's no difference.
And this is kind of kind of a gotcha I'm just going to show you that if we look at the body.
Right, let's let's click on the body here.
So the body is being highlighted.
You may think the body takes up the entire browser body, but it's not it's just wrapping whatever the
whatever is in the content.
Right.
So setting it to 100% of the body is is literally just doing what what it's already doing.
It's just coming down to here.
We want it to cover everything.
This is where viewport heights come in.
So I'm going to go ahead and change this from 100% to 100 VH and save.
And now you can see it can it covers everything regardless of how big or small the browser is.
You can make it bigger or smaller.
It doesn't matter.
It's taking up 100 viewport heights.
Now, if I change this to 50 viewport heights and save, it takes up exactly half because remember,
there's 100 slices, right?
This is taking up 50 of those 100 slices.
If I change this to 20, it's going to take up 20 of those 100 slices.
So this makes creating landing pages very easily.
You know, it's very popular now to have a like a whole big image with some text and a button that's
a very popular look.
And VAR allows us to do that very easily.
So let's make this an actual image.
I'm going to grab a remote image from source dot unsplash.com and if you go down here, let's see.
So random from a collection.
You know what?
Let's grab let's grab the daily photo.
So this right here, this will give us a random daily photo.
I'm going to grab that and I'm going to add this to the background.
Now, I don't know if I've showed you this before, but you can have a background color and then put
a URL after it.
So basically you have the color and then you have the image on top of it.
So let's, let's put in here that link, let's save it and go back.
And now you'll see we have a background image.
Yours will probably be different.
Close that up.
Yours will probably be different because it's a daily photo and they change it daily.
Now notice that it's repeating and I don't think I've had the chance to even show you this.
Let's see the repeat.
Since our window is bigger than the actual image, then it repeats.
So we're going to add some other properties to this background.
So one is going to be no repeat, save that.
And now you can see it doesn't repeat.
OC Another thing I want to do is I wanted to cover I want to center it and I want it to cover the whole
page, the whole background.
So in addition to no repeat, let's do center, center on the x and y axis and then slash cover and
save.
And now it covers the entire thing.
If I stretch this out, it's just it's still it's always going to cover.
So that's going to be your most popular your most popular way to do this or the most common way to do
this.
Now let's work on actually centering the text.
Now, this is where Flexbox actually works really well, but we haven't gotten to that yet, so we're
just going to use padding and stuff like that.
So for the header, first of all, I want to text a line everything and I could stop here.
I mean, I showed you guys what V and why I didn't show you VW yet, but yeah, actually let's do that
first.
So let's add in a width of let's say 50 v w and save and now you'll see it's only going to take up half.
So it's the exact same thing, only it goes horizontal instead of vertical.
But I personally don't use VW that much because as you can see, it goes all the way across anyway.
The heights of different story.
It doesn't it's not going to go all the way down on its own.
But yeah, that's VW.
So let's go ahead and text a line to the center.
So we'll save that.
Now everything is aligned to the center, make this a little bigger and let's see now what I want to
do is add some padding within the header.
Let's do two REM.
So now there's two REM padding all around.
But I want to push this down more and there's better ways to do this with Flexbox.
We could we could align it directly in the middle, but we haven't gotten to that yet.
So I'm just going to add padding top.
Let's do padding top.
Let's try 200 now.
Well, we use REM units.
Let's do five REM.
No, we want more than that.
Let's do.
Ten.
That's still still not low enough.
Let's do 15.
All right.
And if I were to make this smaller.
Good.
So let's let's make this look somewhat decent.
We're going to target some of these other elements like the H one, the paragraph, the button and style
those a little bit.
So let's say header actually we want header h one and we're going to change the font size to three REM.
So that's going to be 616 is the default route font size, it's going to be 16 times three.
And for the paragraph, say header paragraph, let's do margin and let's do one REM, top and bottom
zero left and right.
That way it pushes the link down and pushes the header up.
And then for the button or the I should say the link with the class of BTN where we'll just make that
look decent.
And I know that this doesn't have anything to do with V, H and VW, but I want to reiterate things
we've already gone over.
So we want this button to be in line.
BLOCK Because by default links are inline and then we're going to add text decoration none.
Let's do a background of light gray, change the color to dark gray and let's do padding.
We'll use REM, we'll do 0.75 on the top and bottom and two REM on the left and right and save.
And there's our button.
So it looks a little better.
And I mean, the text might blend, not blend well with the background image, but later on, I'm going
to show you how we can use CSS overlays, where we can have like a dark overlay over the image so that
the text is more readable.
So like I said this the viewport heights, it's always going to be 100 even if we have content below
it.
So let's go below the header and let's add a section and we'll put an H three.
We'll just say like about our company and then we'll put a paragraph, let's do lorem 50
and then I'm just going to add for that section, I'm just going to add padding of two REM just so it's
not right up against the edge.
So notice that it's still, it's still going to take up 100 viewport height.
And then immediately when I scroll down, we're going to see that content.
And it doesn't matter how how tall or short the browser is.
So right now you might think that as we scroll we'll see more of the image.
But no, as we scroll, it's going to go right to that content.
So Viewport Heights is great for landing pages like this where you have this the large image because
it doesn't matter where, how, how tall or short your browser is.
As soon as you scroll down, you're going to see the content.
It only takes up 100 viewport heights of whatever the current browser size is.
All right, now let's see if we make this smaller like that.
Still looks good.
So it's this is actually pretty responsive.
Let's see let's actually check it out with with the Chrome Tools Device Toolbar.
So we're going to hit that.
Okay.
So that looks pretty good.
If you look on it on an iPad, good.
Now let's try an iPhone landscape.
So we need to make this a little bigger and we'll click the landscape.
So in this case, I would probably want this to yeah, that doesn't look very good.
So I'd want this to be moved up.
So let's, let's practice our media query and we don't have to do much.
We always, we just need to change the padding of the header.
So let's say media and I would say max height.
So max height, let's do 450 pixels.
What this means is that when the viewport is 450 pixels or less, then this styling will kick in.
So we'll say header.
And let's see, we initially set the padding top to what I think it was 15 REM.
So let's, let's try five REM and save and there we go.
So now it looks good on landscape and if we go back, you can see it goes back to 15 REM.
So it's a good example of of where and when to use a media query.
All right.
So I think that's going to be it, guys.
What I want to do in the next video is take our hotel website project and I want to make that responsive.
So we're actually going to be adding media queries to that project and just making it overall, making
it better.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.